# 4.4 List of AutoMR Keywords
If any of the `readrhf`, `readuhf`, and `readno` keywords is used, there is no need to write Cartesian coordinates in .gjf file (in fact AutoMR will not read coordinates in such case), since the geometry is already provided in the specified .fch(k) file.

## 4.4.1 readrhf
Read RHF (or ROHF) orbitals from a specified .fch file. Do not provide a UHF-type .fch file using this keyword. This keyword is usually used along with another keyword ist=3 (see Section 4.4.4 ist).

## 4.4.2 readuhf
Read UHF orbitals from a specified .fch(k) file. AutoMR will firstly check the difference between alpha and beta MOs. If the difference is tiny, the wave function in .fch file will be identified as a RHF one and will call utility fch_u2r to generate a RHF-type .fch file (in which all beta information is deleted). Otherwise (i.e. truly UHF), AutoMR will generate UHF natural orbitals (UNO) using input UHF orbitals. It is strongly recommended to check the stability of UHF wave function (using keyword 'stable=opt' in Gaussian). An instable or not-the-lowest UHF solution sometimes leads to improper GVB or CASSCF results.

The author jxzou does not recommend the usage of UDFT orbitals. But in case you have to do that (e.g. forced by your Boss or driven by your curiosity), remember to add an extra keyword 'no10cycle' (see 4.4.24 for no10cycle).

This keyword is usually used along with another keyword ist=1 or 2 (see Section 4.4.4 ist). Note that do not provide a UNO .fch file with this keyword. If you want to use any type of NOs as the initial guess, see 'readno' in the following section.

## 4.4.3 readno
Read natural orbital occupation numbers (NOON) and natural orbitals (NO) from a specified .fch file. In this case, you must ensure that the 'Alpha Orbital Energies' section in the .fch file contains occupation numbers, not energy levels or something else, since the size of the active space will be determined according to the (threshold of the) occupation numbers.

With this keyword, you may try different NOs as the initial guess, like MP2 NOs, CCSD NOs, or some type of NOs generated by your own program. You may also use UNOs from UHF as the initial guess. In this case, it is equivalent to use the keyword ‘readuhf’ to read in the UHF orbitals and generate UNOs by MOKIT.
This keyword is usually used along with another keyword ist=5 (see Section 4.4.4 ist).

## 4.4.4 ist
Request the use of the i-th strategy. Default is 0. This means: (1) if the spin of the target molecule is singlet, MOKIT will call the Gaussian software to perform RHF and UHF computations, then determine whether to change 'ist' to 1 or 3. If the EUHF = ERHF, ist will be changed to 3. If EUHF < ERHF, ist will become 1. (2) if not singlet, ist will be changed to 1 immediately.

For simple organic molecules which have multireference characters (like diradicals), the UHF performed by MOKIT (calling Gaussian) can always find the lowest (and stable) UHF solution. But for complicated systems like binuclear transition metal complex, there often exist multiple UHF solutions. And the UHF solution found by MOKIT is not necessarily the lowest one. In this case you are recommended to do UHF computations by yourself and use ist=1 to read in the Gaussian .fch file. See a practical guide for advanced UHF computations on http://gaussian.com/afc/. If you can read Chinese, you are recommended to read Sobereva’s blog http://sobereva.com/82.

Currently, there are 7 allowed values for ist:
0: meaning that if RHF wave function is stable, use strategy 3; otherwise use strategy 1
1: UHF -> UNO -> associated rotation -> GVB -> CASCI/CASSCF -> ...
2: UHF -> UNO -> (associated rotation ->) CASCI/CASSCF -> ...
3: RHF -> virtual orbital projection -> localization -> pairing -> GVB -> CASCI/CASSCF -> ...
4: RHF -> virtual orbital projection -> CASCI/CASSCF -> ...
5: NOs -> CASCI/CASSCF -> ...
6: minimal basis GVB -> target basis GVB -> CASCI/CASSCF -> …
The value 0 (default) is recommended, if you do not know which one to choose.

## 4.4.5 LocalM
Specify the orbital localization method. Only the Boys (also called Foster-Boys) localization and Pipek-Mezey (PM) localization method are supported. The corresponding keywords are 'LocalM=Boys' and 'LocalM=PM'. By default, the PM localization is used.

Note: the Boys method will mix <em>$\sigma$</em> and $\pi$ orbitals, while the PM method tends to keep them separated. These two methods make no difference when the target molecule contains only $\sigma$ bonds (and possibly a few isolated $\pi$ bonds). But if you are dealing with multiple $\pi$ bonds or conjugated $\pi$ systems like oligoacene(benzene, naphthalene, etc), or if you want the active space to contain only $\pi$ orbitals, better use the PM method. The GVB and CASSCF optimized orbitals will be affected by the localization method sometimes. If you explicitly specify the size of active space which is equal to the $\pi$ space (note that frontier natural orbitals are usually $\pi$ orbitals), then using LocalM=Boys is OK since Boys localization among pure $\pi$ orbitals is safe (no sigma orbital is in the set).

For people who are keen on comparing initial guesses generated from different methods/algorithms, 'Local=Boys' is strongly recommended to be taken into consideration, to see whether a lower GVB, CASCI or CASSCF energy occurs.

## 4.4.6 CIonly
Skip the CASSCF orbital optimization in the CASPT2 or NEVPT2 job. Obviously, this keyword only applies to CASPT2 or NEVPT2 case. Writing CIonly means a CASCI -> CASPT2 or CASCI -> NEVPT2 job. In fact, the CASSCF orbital optimization is always recommended to be performed, unless it is too time-consuming, or you happen to want this type of result.

Note: if you simply need a CASCI computation, do not use CIonly in a CASSCF job, but simply write CASCI/basis_set in the keyword line of .gjf file.

## 4.4.7 Force
Request a calculation of the analytical nuclear gradient. Currently this keyword only applies to CASSCF. Geometry optimization is currently not supported, but you can use the generated files to perform optimization using corresponding software. Numerical gradient is not supported.
Note that this keyword do not have any attribute value, i.e. do not write 'force=.True.' but only 'force' in {}. Also keep in mind that force is negative gradient.

## 4.4.8 Cart
Request the use of Cartesian type atomic basis functions. The default basis type in AutoMR (i.e. spherical harmonic functions) will then be disabled. These two types of basis functions correspond to '6D 10F' (Cartesian functions) and '5D 7F' (spherical harmonic functions) in Gaussian. It is strongly recommended to use spherical harmonic functions, especially in all-electron relativistic computations (DKH2, X2C, etc).
Note that for computations involving the ORCA program, this keyword cannot be used since ORCA only support spherical harmonic functions.
If you don't know the meaning of 5D or 6D, you are referred to Schlegel and Frisch's paper (DOI: 10.1002/qua.560540202), and a good explanation from [Chemissian](http://www.chemissian.com/ch5). If you can read Chinese, you are recommended to read Sobereva’s [blog](http://sobereva.com/51).

## 4.4.9 HF_prog
Specify the program for performing Hartree-Fock (HF) calculations. Supported programs are Gaussian(default), PySCF, PSI4 and ORCA. If the input molecule is singlet, RHF and broken symmetry UHF (plus wave function stability analysis) will be successively performed. If not singlet, only UHF (plus wave function stability analysis) will be performed.
It is strongly recommended to use the default HF_prog (i.e. Gaussian), since the SCF algorithm in Gaussian is the most effect in almost all cases, among all quantum software packages. The only case when you are recommended to use PySCF/PSI4/ORCA, is that if your studied molecule is large and cannot be further simplified (Nbasis > 1500), you can consider turn on the RI approximation of HF to accelerate computations in PySCF, PSI4 or ORCA. For example, in this special case you are supposed to write

mokit{RI,HF_prog=PySCF} (or PSI4, ORCA if you wish)

in the input file of AutoMR. For small to medium-size molecules (Nbasis < 1500), better not use PySCF/PSI4/ORCA since their SCF is usually slower or harder to converge than that of Gaussian.
Note: implementation of this keyword for PySCF/PSI4/ORCA has not been finished yet.

## 4.4.10 GVB_prog
Specify the GVB program. Supported programs are GAMESS(default), Gaussian and QChem. The second-order SCF (SOSCF) algorithm in GAMESS is used to converge the GVB wave function. The GAMESS version >=2017 is strongly recommended. Older versions of GAMESS may work or may not, since they are not tested by the developers. It is always recommended to use the default program GAMESS, rather than Gaussian (due to poor convergence for transition metal).

Note the original GAMESS can only do GVB up to 12 pairs. Nowadays we can do a black-box GVB computation with hundreds of pairs. So, to go beyond 12 pairs, you need to modify and re-compile the source code of GAMESS.
MOKIT offers a Shell script to help you automatically handle this. Assuming you’ve compiled GAMESS before (i.e. all `*.o` files are still in gamess/object/ directory of GAMESS), now you simply need to copy two files (modify_GMS1.sh and modify_GMS2.f90) from mokit/src/ into gamess/source/ directory, and run './modify_GMS1.sh'. The script will modify source code and re-compile GAMESS, taking about 2 minutes. The linked GAMESS executable will be gamess.01.x. If you already had an executable named gamess.01.x, please rename it to another filename. Otherwise it will be destroyed and replaced during re-compilation.

Besides, for GAMESS earlier than version 2021-R1, it only supports 32 CPU cores. If your machine has more cores (and if you want to use >32 cores), you need to modify the variable MAXCPUS in file gamess/ddi/compddi. See a simple guide in file src/modify_GMS_beyond32CPU.txt. Since GAMESS 2021, the MAXCPUS is already set to 128, so modification is not needed.
It is strongly recommended to check whether the GAMESS runs normally after modifying. Such check can be done by running './runall 01' in gamess/ directory, where 01 means checking the executable gamess.01.x. This is same as checking for version 00. All tests are supposed to be passed successfully.

## 4.4.11 CASCI_prog
Specify the program for performing the CASCI calculation, e.g. `CASCI_prog=PySCF`. Supported programs are PySCF(default), Molpro, GAMESS, OpenMolcas, Gaussian, ORCA, BDF, PSI4 and Dalton.
If you use some old versions of BDF as the CASCI_prog, you may find the NOONs are zero. In that case you should update to the latest version of BDF.

## 4.4.12 CASSCF_prog
Specify the program for performing the CASSCF calculation, e.g. `CASSCF_prog=PySCF`. Supported programs are PySCF(default), Molpro, GAMESS, OpenMolcas, Gaussian, ORCA, BDF, PSI4 and Dalton. If you want to use a CASSCF program instead of PySCF, I recommend Molpro, OpenMolcas or GAMESS.
If you use some old versions of BDF as the CASSCF_prog, you may find the NOONs are zero. In that case you should update to the latest version of BDF.
Currently automr cannot run excited state calculations. Please read related comments in Section A2.3.

## 4.4.13 DMRGCI_prog
Specify the program for performing DMRG-CASCI calculation, e.g. `DMRGCI_prog=PySCF`. Currently only PySCF is supported and it is the default program.
Note that in fact the DMRG-CASCI calculations are performed by Block-1.5 and PySCF, not only by PySCF. Thus you should install the Block-1.5 program. And you should also cite corresponding reference of the Block-1.5 program.
Also note that the MPI version used by Block is probably contradicted with MPI version used by ORCA, thus you have to comment one version of MPI environment variables at a time. Or you can use a Shell script to submit the automr job, in which your desired MPI environment variables are written.

## 4.4.14 DMRGSCF_prog
Specify the program for performing DMRG-CASSCF calculation, e.g. `DMRGSCF_prog=PySCF`. Currently only PySCF is supported and it is the default program.
Note that in fact the DMRG-CASSCF calculations are performed by Block-1.5 and PySCF, not only by PySCF. Thus you should install the Block-1.5 program. And you should also cite corresponding reference of the Block-1.5 program.
Also note that the MPI version used by Block is probably contradicted with MPI version used by ORCA, thus you have to comment one version of MPI environment variables at a time. Or you can use a Shell script to submit the automr job, in which your desired MPI environment variables are written.

## 4.4.15 CASPT2_prog
Specify the program for performing CASPT2 calculation, e.g. CASPT2_prog=OpenMolcas. Currently only OpenMolcas(default), Molpro and ORCA are supported. All core orbitals are not frozen. Note that a default IP-EA shift 0.25 a.u. will be applied and it cannot be modified. If your CASPT2 results are sensitive to the IP-EA shift, it implies that CASPT2 is not suitable to your problem. Another two types of shift (the real or imaginary shift) is not supported.
Generally speaking, NEVPT2 is more recommended than CASPT2 since there is no need for IP-EA shift, real or imaginary shift in NEVPT2.

## 4.4.16 NEVPT2_prog
Specify the program for performing NEVPT2 calculation, e.g. `NEVPT2_prog=PySCF`. Currently supported programs are PySCF(default), Molpro, ORCA, OpenMolcas and BDF. All core orbitals are not frozen.
Note that there exist at least two variants of the NEVPT2: SC-NEVPT2 and FIC-NEVPT2(aka PC-NEVPT2). By default, for NEVPT2_prog=PySCF/Molpro/ORCA/OpenMolcas, SC-NEVPT2 is chosen; while for NEVPT2_prog=BDF, FIC-NEVPT2 is chosen. To turn on the FIC-NEVPT2 when using PySCF/Molpro/ORCA/OpenMolcas, please read Section 4.4.34. Also note that

(1) When you specify `NEVPT2_prog=Molpro` or OpenMolcas, both of the SC-NEVPT2 and FIC-NEVPT2 energies are actually printed in Molpro/OpenMolcas output (.out file). You can open the output file and read it manually, if you need that energy.
(2) If you specify `NEVPT2_prog=OpenMolcas`, it actually turns into a DMRG-NEVPT2 computation, no matter how large/small the size of active space is. In this special case, you need to install the QCMaquis package (interfaced with OpenMolcas) for DMRG computations.

## 4.4.17 MRCISD_prog
Specify the program for performing MRCISD calculation. By default, `MRCISD_prog=OpenMolcas`. You MUST also specify a contraction type, please read Section 4.4.20 carefully.
Currently, AutoMR supports the interfaces of three MRCISD variants:
(1) uncontracted MRCISD
(2) internally contracted MRCISD (ic-MRCISD)
(3) fully internally contracted MRCISD (FIC-MRCISD)

where the computational cost and accuracy is (1)>(2)>(3). The ic- and FIC-MRCISD are both approximations of uncontracted MRCISD. If the Davidson size-consistency correction energy is added, then the method should be denoted as MRCISD+Q. It is recommended to use ic-MRCISD+Q or FIC-MRCISD+Q in practical calculations since the uncontracted MRCISD is often too expensive.

AutoMR is able to call OpenMolcas/Molpro/ORCA/Gaussian/GAMESS/PSI4/Dalton programs to perform MRCISD. Currently all core orbitals are not frozen. MRCISD based on the DMRG reference is not supported currently.
If MRCISD_prog=OpenMolcas, only variants (1) and (2) are supported. The Davidson correction can be provided for both methods.
If MRCISD_prog=ORCA, only (1) and (3) are supported. The Davidson correction can be provided for both methods. However, only spherical harmonic functions of basis sets are supported in ORCA. But this is often not a problem, since it is recommended to use spherical harmonic functions than Cartesian functions.
Note that you should use ORCA>=5.0.0 for FIC-MRCISD+Q computations since older versions have a tiny bug in the Davidson correction.
If MRCISD_prog=Gaussian or Dalton, only (1) is supported and no Davidson correction is given.
If MRCISD_prog=GAMESS or PSI4, only (1) is supported. The Davidson correction energy will also be printed.
If MRCISD_prog=Molpro, only (2) is supported. The Davidson correction energy will also be printed. Note that the MRCIC program of Molpro will be called to perform ic-MRCISD. This ic-MRCISD is not exactly identical to that of OpenMolcas, so their electronic energies are different with (but close to) each other. If you want to compare (relative) electronic energies of two molecules using ic-MRCISD method, please choose the same type, i.e. both using Molpro or both using OpenMolcas.

## 4.4.18 MRMP2_prog
Specify the program for performing MRMP2 calculation. Only GAMESS is supported and this is the default.

## 4.4.19 MCPDFT_prog
Specify the program for performing MC-PDFT calculation. Only OpenMolcas(default) and GAMESS are supported.
Note that if the active space is larger than (15,15), the MC-PDFT will be automatically switched to DMRG-PDFT. In this special case you need to install the QCMaquis package (interfaced with OpenMolcas) for DMRG computations. DMRG-PDFT is not supported in GAMESS currently.
Also note that in GAMESS, the MC-PDFT is only supported for version >= 2019(R2), and currently it can only be run in serial.

## 4.4.20 CtrType
Specify the contraction type of the MRCISD method. The default value is 0. When you specify the MRCISD method and the MRCISD_prog, you must assign an integer for this variable, where
1 for uncontracted MRCISD
2 for ic-MRCISD
3 for FIC-MRCISD.
Generally, the ic- and FIC-MRCISD methods are recommended. If your calculation involves Cartesian-type basis functions, then you cannot use FIC-MRCISD in ORCA. In such case, you can choose ic-MRCISD in OpenMolcas instead.

## 4.4.21 MaxM
Specify the bond dimension MaxM in DMRG-related calculations. The default values is 1000 (e.g. `MaxM=1000`). When maxM increases, the DMRG-CASCI energy will become closer to the CASCI energy, but the computational cost increases as well. The value 1000 is suitable for common cases. But do check whether it is valid for your system. For example, three computations using different MaxM (e.g. 500, 1000, 1500) may be conducted to study whether the energy converges with MaxM.

## 4.4.22 hardwfn
This option can only be applied to CASCI/CASSCF calculations using PySCF, OpenMolcas, GAMESS or PSI4. By specifying 'hardwfn', AutoMR will add extra keywords into the CAS input files to ensure a better convergence. Note that normally you do not need this keyword, and it is useless if you specify other programs as the CAS solver.

## 4.4.23 crazywfn
This option can only be applied to CASCI/CASSCF calculations using PySCF, OpenMolcas, GAMESS or PSI4. By specifying 'crazywfn', AutoMR will add extra keywords (more than those of 'hardwfn') into the CAS input files to ensure a better convergence. Note that usually you do not need this keyword, and it is useless if you specify other programs as the CAS solver.
For example, when the N2 molecule is stretched to d(N-N) = 4.0 Å, this is a system which features strong correlation and requires a CAS(6,6) active space. The Davidson iterative diagonalization in determinant CASCI (using GAMESS) may not find the singlet state in the lowest 5 states. In this case, specifying ‘crazywfn’ will increase the NSTATE to 10, so that the singlet state can be found.

## 4.4.24 no10cycle
Skip the 10 cycles of SCF calculations after importing MOs. By default, AutoMR will do several (up to 10) cycles of RHF or UHF after importing MOs from .fch file. This has two advantages: (1) check whether the SCF converges immediately. If not, the MO in .fch file may be wrong, or there exists some bug of fch2py (which has never been observed by the author). (2) it will slightly improve the orthonormality of the input MOs, although the orthonormality is already good. Thus usually you do not need to write this keyword.
If you start with MOs which are not RHF or UHF MOs (e,g, NOs, UDFT MOs, etc), you must specify 'no10cycle' in mokit{}. Because any iteration of input MOs will change them, which is not what you want.

## 4.4.25 charge
This keyword has identical meaning with the same keyword in Gaussian software, i.e. including background point charges in calculations. This keyword is supported for almost all methods in AutoMR. Methods which are incompatible with background point charges will signal errors immediately. The charge-charge and charge-nuclei interaction energies are both included in all electronic energies printed (UHF, GVB, CASSCF, NEVPT2, etc).
The including of background point charges is useful for QM/MM calculations or fragmentation-based linear scaling methods (like GEBF, Many-body expansion, etc).
Note: please write this keyword in mokit{}. DO NOT WRITE this keyword in the Route Section of .gjf file (i.e. '#p …'' line).

## 4.4.26 OtPDF
The choice of the on-top pair density functional. This keyword has identical meaning with the keyword KSDFT in (Open)Molcas software. Currently available functionals are tPBE(default), tBLYP, tLSDA, trevPBE, tOPBE, ftPBE, ftBLYP, ftLSDA, ftrevPBE and ftOPBE. For more details please refer to the Molcas manual. Note that the available functionals depends on your version of OpenMolcas or GAMESS. Old versions may not support some of the functionals.
Note that for Openmolcas >= v22.02, the on-top pair density functional keywords in .input file of OpenMolcas have been changed to T:PBE, FT:PBE, etc. The user need not worry about this problem in MOKIT, since AutoMR will automatically detect the version of OpenMolcas and change the keyword tPBE into T:PBE if needed.
Note that in GAMESS, the MC-PDFT is only supported for version >= 2019(R2).

## 4.4.27 DKH2
Request the 2nd order scalar relativistic Douglas–Kroll–Hess (DKH2) correction to the one-electron Hamiltonian. Note that: (1) The two keywords DKH2 and X2C are mutually exclusive, i.e. you can only write one of them. (2) You should use all-electron basis sets like 'cc-pVTZ-DK', 'x2c-TZVPall' or 'ANO-RCC-VDZ' for all-electron relativistic calculations. Pseudopotential should not be used. (3) It is strongly not recommended to use Cartesian-type function of basis set (severe numerical instability observed), please just use the default spherical harmonic functions.
Currently only the point nuclei charge distribution is supported. The DKH0 Hamiltonian is rough and thus not supported. These programs support the DKH2 Hamiltonian: Dalton, Gaussian, GAMESS, OpenMolcas, ORCA, Molpro, PSI4.

## 4.4.28 X2C
Request the scalar (i.e. spin-free) relativistic X2C (eXact-two-Component) corrections to the one-electron Hamiltonian. Note that: (1) The two keywords DKH2 and X2C are mutually exclusive, i.e. you can only write one of them. (2) You should use all-electron basis sets like 'cc-pVTZ-DK', 'x2c-TZVPall' or 'ANO-RCC-VDZ' for all-electron relativistic calculations. Pseudopotential should not be used. (3) It is strongly not recommended to use Cartesian-type function of basis set (severe numerical instability observed), please just use the default spherical harmonic functions.
Also note that by default, the RHF/UHF is performed using Gaussian called by AutoMR, and GVB is performed using GAMESS called by AutoMR. Since Gaussian and GAMESS do not support X2C, in these steps the X2C will be replaced by DKH2. According to the limited tests of the author jxzou, MOs resulting from DKH2 and X2C are similar and often converge in few cycles.
Currently only the point nuclei charge distribution is supported. These programs support the X2C Hamiltonian: BDF, OpenMolcas, Molpro, PSI4, PySCF. After several months, X2C will be supported in ORCA.

## 4.4.29 RI
Request to turn on the RI-JK approximation for two-electron integrals in CASSCF. Default is off. Please just write `mokit{RI}`, do not write 'mokit{RI=True}' or 'mokit{RI on}'. The other two types of RI approximations RI-J and RIJCOSX are not supported.
This option currently can only be used in CASSCF computations conducted by PySCF, OpenMolcas, Molpro, ORCA, or PSI4 programs. To learn more about the auxiliary basis set used in RI-JK approximation, see the following Section 4.4.30.

## 4.4.30 RIJK_bas
Specify an auxiliary basis set for RI-JK approximation in CASSCF computations conducted by ORCA. Usually you do not need to specify this, since the automr program will automatically assign a proper auxiliary basis set according to the basis set (e.g. def2/JK for def2TZVP, cc-pVTZ/JK for cc-pVTZ). You can simply open the output file of automr and see what auxiliary basis set is assigned.
In the current version of OpenMolcas, there is no auxiliary basis set in it. The AutoMR program in MOKIT will automatically transformed the needed basis set file and put that into $MOLCAS/basis_library/jk_Basis/.

## 4.4.31 F12
Request to turn on the F12 technique in NEVPT2 computations conducted by ORCA. F12 is not used by default. But if you turn on F12, RI (see Section 4.4.29) will be turned on as a byproduct.
This option currently can only be used in CASSCF and CASSCF-NEVPT2 computations conducted by ORCA program, i.e. you need to specify `CASSCF_prog=ORCA,NEVPT2_prog=ORCA,F12` in mokit{}. To learn more about the near-complete auxiliary basis set used in F12 technique, see the following Section 4.4.32.

## 4.4.32 F12_cabs
Specify a near-complete auxiliary basis set for the F12 technique in NEVPT2 computations conducted by ORCA. Usually you do not need to specify this, since the automr program will automatically assign a proper auxiliary basis set according to the basis set (e.g. cc-pVTZ-F12-CABS for cc-pVTZ-F12). You can simply open the output file of automr and see what CABS is assigned.

## 4.4.33 DLPNO
Request to turn on the DLPNO technique in NEVPT2 computations conducted by ORCA. DLPNO is not used by default. But if you turn on DLPNO, RI (see 4.4.29) and FIC (see 4.4.34) will be turned on as byproducts.
This option currently can only be used in CASSCF and CASSCF-NEVPT2 computations conducted by ORCA program, i.e. you need to specify `CASSCF_prog=ORCA,NEVPT2_prog=ORCA,DLPNO` in mokit{}. Of course it can be combined with F12 to perform RI-DLPNO-FIC-NEVPT2-F12 computations for large systems, where the keywords should be
CASSCF_prog=ORCA,NEVPT2_prog=ORCA,DLPNO,F12
in mokit{}.

## 4.4.34 FIC
Request the FIC- variant of NEVPT2 (i.e. FIC-NEVPT2) to be used. By default SC-NEVPT2 is invoked if you specify NEVPT2 in route section (#p NEVPT2/…) and use PySCF/Molpro/OpenMolcas/ORCA program as NEVPT2_prog. But if you specify NEVPT2_prog=BDF, this option is turned on as a byproduct and FIC-NEVPT2 will then be performed. SC-NEVPT2 is not supported in BDF. FIC-NEVPT2 is not supported in PySCF.

## 4.4.35 ON_thres
When ist=5, this parameter is the threshold of natural orbital occupation numbers (NOON) for determining the number of active orbitals. Default value is 0.02, which means orbital occupation numbers 0.02~1.98 will be considered as active orbitals in subsequent CAS/DMRG calculations.
Note that when using ist=5, you should provide a .fch(k) file which contains paired natural orbitals, for example, UNO, UDFT NO, SUHF NO, etc. This is to ensure occupation numbers occur in a pairwise way (1-x, 1+x). Better not modify the default value unless you are an experienced user.

## 4.4.36 UNO_thres
When ist=1 or 2, this parameter is the threshold of UNO occupation numbers for determining the number of pairs in GVB computation. The default value is 0.00001 and it means all unoccupied UNOs with occupation numbers >1e-5 will be chosen (as well as their corresponding occupied UNOs) for subsequent orbital localization. The default value often corresponds to a full-valence computation of GVB. Similarly, setting UNO_thres=0.02 corresponds to the fact that any unoccupied UNOs with occupation numbers >0.02 will be chosen.
DO NOT modify the default value unless you are an experienced user.

## 4.4.37 excludeXH
Request the exclusion of inactive X-H bonds after normal GVB computation finished. For example, a normal GVB computation of the benzene molecule using cc-pVDZ basis set will lead to 15 pairs in total, which contains 9 pairs of C-C bonds and 6 pairs of C-H bonds. If the keyword excludeXH is specified in mokit{}, then a GVB(9) computation containing only C-C bonds will be automatically performed after GVB(15).

## 4.4.38 NMR
Request the calculation of nuclear shielding constants. Currently only the CASSF method is supported. Gauge-Independent Atomic Orbital (GIAO) method is used to compute the NMR shielding tensors. Note that:
(1) This keyword should be written in mokit{}, not in the Gaussian keyword line (#p …).
(2) The chemical shift of an atom or element is the difference of nuclear shielding constants between the studied molecule and the standard reference molecule. For example, hydrogen atoms in tetramethylsilane(TMS) is usually used as the reference for chemical shifts in 1H-NMR.
(3) For practical computations of chemical shifts, it is recommended to use specially designed basis sets like pcSseg-1 or pcSseg-2. Larger basis sets like pcSseg-3, def2-QZVP or cc-pVQZ would be better but often too expensive.
(4) If you want to calculate NICS, please read tutorial in Section 5.4.2 NICS of cyclobutadiene. If you want ICSS, please read tutorial in Section 5.4.1 ICSS of cyclobutadiene.
(5) You should use the OpenMP version of Dalton for this functionality, do not use MPI-parallelized version of Dalton.
(6) This functionality cannot be used for active space >(14,14), since there is no DMRG-GIAO implementation.
(7) MOKIT assumes the user uses 32-bit integer Dalton. The maximum memory allowed for 32-bit integer Dalton is around 16GB. So MOKIT will automatically reduce the memory to 16GB if the user specify >16GB in a NMR job.

## 4.4.39 ICSS
Request the calculation ICSS (Isochemical Shielding Surfaces). Currently only the CASSF method is supported. Gauge-Independent Atomic Orbital (GIAO) method is used to compute the NMR shieldings. See the example $MOKIT_ROOT/examples/automr/16-C4H4.gjf. Note that:
(1) This keyword should be written in mokit{}, not in the Gaussian keyword line (#p …).
(2) This is an extremely time-consuming job. So you'd better have a large node/machine to compute all the generated files. 6-31G(d) or 6-31+G(d) basis set is recommended since larger basis set requires very long time.
(3) After the ICSS computation is accomplished, there would be a file like `*_ICSS.cub` generated. You can visualized it via GaussView, Multiwfn or VMD.
(4) You should use the OpenMP version of Dalton for this functionality, do not use MPI-parallelized version of Dalton.
(5) This functionality cannot be used for active space >(14,14), since there is no DMRG-GIAO implementation.
(6) MOKIT will submit 2, 3 or 4 Dalton jobs in parallel to accelerate the ICSS computation. The number of Dalton job is determined as three cases: (i) if %nproc is multiples of 4, then 4 jobs will be submitted; (ii) otherwise if %nproc is multiples of 3, then 3 jobs will be submitted; (iii) otherwise 2 jobs will be submitted. In these cases, the allowed maximum total memory is 64GB, 48GB and 32GB, respectively. This is because MOKIT assumes the user uses 32-bit integer of Dalton, which can only utilize up to 16GB.
See a detailed example in Section 5.4 ICSS and NICS of Cyclobutadiene.

## 4.4.40 Nstates
Specify the number of roots to be averaged in SA-CASSCF computations. For example, Nstates=2 stands for 3 electronic states (ground state + two excited states). The default is to average states with the same spin. If you want to average S0/T1, you should also write the keyword Mixed_Spin (see 4.4.41).

## 4.4.41 Mixed_Spin
Specifying this keyword means that allowing electronic states with different spin multiplicities to be averaged in SA-CASSCF. If you want to write this keyword, just write Mixed_Spin. Do not write Mixed_Spin=.True. or Mixed_Spin=True. If this keyword is not specified, the default setting is to average states with the same spin.

## 4.4.42 Root
Specify the root which you are interested in State-Specific CASSCF (SS-CASSCF) calculations. Default value is 0 (ground state). Root=1 stands for the first excited state. For example, if the ground state is S0, then Root=1 stands for the S1 state. Note that this keyword is mutually exclusive to the keyword Nstates in Section 4.4.40, since the latter one is used for SA-CASSCF. Currently dynamic correlation based on SS-CASSCF is not supported.

## 4.4.43 GVB_conv
Modify/Set the density matrix convergence criterion in GAMESS GVB to be a desired threshold. The default threshold is 1D-5 (meaning 10-5 a.u.). Usually there is no need to modify the default value. But if you want to use a less tight threshold, 1D-4 ~ 5D-4 is recommended, e.g. GVB_conv=5D-4. Note that only 4 characters are allowed for this parameter. Do not write 5.0D-4 since it exceeds the length limit. This keyword is equivalent to the keyword CONV in GAMESS (please read the documentation file docs-input.txt in GAMESS package if you want know more details).
There are two possible cases in which you may want to change the default GVB convergence threshold: (1) When dealing with molecules which have many conjugated  bonds (e.g. acene, zethrene), although the default orbital localization method Pipek-Mezey provides - separated initial guess orbitals for GVB computation, the converged GVB orbitals may still be - mixed. In that case you can specify keywords mokit{LocalM=Boys,GVB_conv=5d-4} and specify exactly the number of  bonds n in Route Section as GVB(n) (this is just a combination of keywords which have been explored by the author jxzou and found often useful). One may wonder why the Boys localization method is used here. This is because we have explicitly specified GVB(n), the n pairs of UNOs near HONO are usually pure  orbitals and it is safe to use Boys localization among  orbitals. (2) When dealing with d transition metal (e.g. Fe) molecules, the GVB orbital optimization often takes many cycles to converge or even diverge in the end, but the first ~30 cycles are often reasonable, so we can use a less tight threshold to converge the GVB wavefuntion.

## 4.4.44 Skip_UNO
Specify the number of pairs of UNOs to be skipped during orbital localization. Default is 0. For example, Skip_UNO=1 means that the HONO and LUNO will be kept unchanged when localizing UNOs. And Skip_UNO=2 means that the HONO-1, HONO, LUNO and LUNO+1 will be kept unchanged when localizing UNOs. This is useful when GVB exists multiple SCF solutions. Using Skip_UNO=1 you can probably obtain a biradical-like GVB solution (if the molecule indeed has significant biradical characters). It is recommended to choose the solution with the lowest GVB electronic energies for subsequent post-GVB computations.
This keyword is invalid for keyword ist=3,4,5. It is also invalid when mokit{ist=6} is specified. But it is valid for keywords mokit{ist=6,inherit} since the keyword inherit will force skip_UNO=N to be inherited in the GVB/STO-6G computation.

## 4.4.45 Inherit
Request to inherit keywords and the number of GVB pairs (if explicitly specified) in GVB/STO-6G calculation from the target calculation. This keyword can only be used when ist=6. Default is not to inherit keywords. If you want to write this keyword, just write Inherit. Do not write Inherit=.True. or Inherit=True.

## 4.4.46 Npair
Specify the number of GVB pairs in a non-GVB (e.g. CASSCF) calculation. For example, the following input file will lead a GVB(24) -> CASSCF(10,10) calculation, where 24 means 16 C-C bonds and 8 C-H bonds:
```
%mem=48GB
%nprocshared=48
#p CASSCF/cc-pVDZ

mokit{ist=1,readuhf='naphthalene_cc-pVDZ_uhf.fch'}
```
But if you want to perform a GVB(5) -> CASSCF(10,10) calculation, which would save some time and obtain the same CASSCF result, you can modify the keywords into
```
mokit{ist=1,readuhf='naphthalene_cc-pVDZ_uhf.fch',Npair=5}
```

## 4.4.47 FcGVB
Request to freeze all doubly occupied orbitals in GVB calculations. Do not write FcGVB=.T., FcGVB=.True., or FcGVB=True. Just specifying FcGVB will work. This keyword is useful for obtaining the GVB solution with pure $\pi$ orbitals in calculations of non-planar polycyclic hydrocarbons. If you want to calculate the S-T gap, remember to specify FcGVB in both singlet and triplet cases.
